# Cancer-Prediction

Early detection of disease has become a crucial problem due to rapid population growth in medical research in recent times. With the rapid population growth, the risk of death incurred by breast cancer is rising exponentially. Breast cancer is the second most severe cancer among all of the cancers already unveiled. An automatic disease detection system aids medical staffs in disease diagnosis and offers reliable, effective, and rapid response as well as decreases the risk of death. 

Breast cancer is the leading cancer in females all over the world. Breast cancer is caused due to the abnormal growth of some cells in the breast. Several techniques have been introduced for the correct diagnosis of breast cancer. Breast screening or mammography is a technique to diagnose breast cancer. It is used to check the nipple status of women through X-rays. Generally, it is almost impossible to detect breast cancer at the initial stage due to the small size of the cancer cell seen from outside. It is possible to diagnose cancer at the early stage through mammography, and this test takes just a few minutes.

I have used machine learning algorithms to predict cancer disease. I have used cancer dataset in order to predict whether a patient is malignant or benign to cancer. I have used 33 features for prediction and used classification algorithms such as Logistic Regression, K-Nearest Neighbors, Support Vector Machine, Kernel SVM,Naive Bayes,Decision Tree and Random Forest. And artificial neural network as deep learning algorithm and used k-fold cross validation and catboosting for model boosting.
